Welcome back to this course on polymer chemistry and in today ’ s lecture , which is lecture number seventeen , I am going to cover or begin our discussion on ionic chain polymerization .
Now , in this lecture I plan to cover discuss the general characteristics of ionic chain polymerization , and while discussing I will compare how this ionic chain polymerization compares with radical chain polymerization .
And then we will go to cationic chain polymerization and talk about different types of initiation for cationic chain polymerization , and then go to propagation and termination reactions in cationic chain polymerization .
And then I will talk about kinetics of cationic chain polymerization and then energetics of cationic chain polymerization .
And in next lecture , I plan to talk about the other type of ionic polymerization , which is anionic chain polymerization .
Now , let us begin our discussion on ionic chain polymerization .
Now , as the name suggest , in this case the initiation is from an anionic species , whether it is a cation or anion .
Say , if I consider M as a monomer and I is a , initiation , initiator , then it could be a cation or an anion , which will , according to which we name cationic polymerization or anionic polymerization .
It could be acceptance of electron giving rise to a radical anion or removal of an electron , which gives to radical cation , which two of which might combine to give you a dianion or a dication which can further initiate the chain reactions from both the sides .
So , this is example , this is a case of cationic polymerization .
This is a case of cationic polymerization and this two are the case of anionic polymerization .
Now , in this case , the ionic species are the initiator or rather the initiators are ionic species , so as the propagating species also ionic .
Now , the some polymerization , for example , initiation by coordination or semi clock side , which also progress through an ionic species , propagating , propagates through ionic species route , but those we are not going to cover as an ionic chain polymerization .
So , ionic chain polymerization we will consider only when both the initiation and the propagation reaction is by ionic species .
Now , like radical chain polymerization , these ionic chain polymers , polymerization reactions are not very popular commercially .
There are main , too main reasons why they are not so utilized commercially .
One is that stringent requirement of polymerization in case of this ionic polymerization .
We require very , stringest , stringent conditions , which are difficult to achieve in a large industrial scale and also , this ionic polymerization are very selective , which means , that not every monomer can be polymerized by ionic polymerization , unlike , unlike radical case where most of the , poly , monomers , double bond monomers can be polymerized by radical chain polymerization we can assume .
So , these are the main two reasons why this ionic chain polymerization , are not practiced that commercially in that scale .
And so in that sense , it is not that important like radical chain polymerization .
However , this polymerization is ionic chain polymerization , gives us opportunity to synthesize specialized polymers , like block copolymers or tellically polymers , which are basically type polymers , having functional groups at the end of the chain , which we can , we utilized for the , for another reactions .
So , let us start the discussion on ionic polymerization and let us talk about first the general characteristics .
And while talking these general characteristics of ionic polymerization we will compare its differences or its likeliness with the chain , radical chain polymerization .
First is that as I just said , that it is , it is much more selective , much more selective .
Now , why do we started our discussion on chain polymerization ?